# ***MongoDB***

MongoDB is a NoSQL database belonging to the NoSQL database family.

Databases are classified into two groups:
1. Relational Databases: A type of database that contains tables and can also include links between tables. SQL language works on such databases. Examples include MySQL, SQL-Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, Access, and more.
2. NoSQL Databases: This is a type of database that holds data in a different way than tables, often using JSON. SQL language does not work on such databases. It is generally much faster than relational databases. Examples include MongoDB, Elasticsearch, Cassandra, and more.

# ***Installation***
The native mongoDB manager software is Compass, and it can be installed as an option in mongoDB installation pack.

## ***Collection***

A collection is a set of objects, similar to a table.

## ***Document***

A document is an individual object that exists within a collection. It is equivalent to a record in a table.

# ***_id***

The uniq object id that generated by the DB automatically and assigned to each item. This is an good practice to keep the underline in code models, services etc...

## ***ORM***

ORM stands for Object Relational Mapper. It is a library that allows representing data in a database using objects in memory. Instead of executing queries on the data and sending the query to the database, you can build an object that contains queries and operations on the data.

# ***Import/Export***

1. We need to install MongoDB Command Line Database Tools (https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/database-tools).
2. Extract tools in C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\6.0\bin
3. Export: Open terminal on C:\Program Files\MongoDB\Server\6.0\bin>mongodump -d YourDataBaseName  dump/YourDataBaseName. This command will create "dump" folder and inside folder with desired database.
4. 


## ***Mongoose***

Mongoose is an ORM library for MongoDB. It enables working with objects that store data in the database.

Installation: `npm i mongoose`

Building a complex model involves three components:
1. Interface that describes what is in the model.
2. Schema, which is built from the interface and defines additional rules for each attribute.
3. Class that describes the model.

Operation principle:
- If we want to describe the model as a type of variable received by a function, returned from a function, etc., we use the interface.
- If we want to perform an operation with the model, we use the model class.